ì´ˆë¡

This paper addresses the scalability challenge of architecture search by formulating the task in a differentiable manner. Unlike conventional approaches of applying evolution or reinforcement learning over a discrete and non-differentiable search space, our method is based on the continuous relaxation of the architecture representation, allowing an efficient search of the architecture using gradient descent. Extensive experiments on CIFAR-10, ImageNet, Penn Treebank, and WikiText-2 show that our algorithm excels in discovering high-performance convolutional architectures for image classification and recurrent architectures for language modeling, while being orders of magnitude faster than state-of-the-art non-differentiable techniques. Our implementation has been made publicly available to facilitate further research on efficient architecture search algorithms.


ê°œìš”

Discovering state-of-the-art neural network architectures requires substantial effort of human experts. Recently, there has been a growing interest in developing algorithmic solutions to automate the manual process of architecture design. The automatically searched architectures have achieved highly competitive performance in tasks such as image classification (Zoph & Le, 2017; Zoph et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2018b;a; Real et al., 2018) and object detection (Zoph et al., 2018).

The best existing architecture search algorithms are computationally demanding despite their remarkable performance. For example, obtaining a state-of-the-art architecture for CIFAR-10 and ImageNet required 2000 GPU days of reinforcement learning (RL) (Zoph et al., 2018) or 3150 GPU days of evolution (Real et al., 2018). Several approaches for speeding up have been proposed, such as imposing a particular structure of the search space (Liu et al., 2018b;a), weights or performance prediction for each individual architecture (Brock et al., 2018; Baker et al., 2018) and weight sharing/inheritance across multiple architectures (Elsken et al., 2017; Pham et al., 2018b; Cai et al., 2018; Bender et al., 2018), but the fundamental challenge of scalability remains. An inherent cause of inefficiency for the dominant approaches, e.g. based on RL, evolution, MCTS (Negrinho & Gordon, 2017), SMBO (Liu et al., 2018a), or Bayesian optimization (Kandasamy et al., 2018), is the fact that architecture search is treated as a black-box optimization problem over a discrete domain, which leads to a large number of architecture evaluations required.

In this work, we approach the problem from a different angle and propose a method for efficient architecture search called DARTS (Differentiable ARchiTecture Search). Instead of searching over a discrete set of candidate architectures, we relax the search space to be continuous, so that the architecture can be optimized with respect to its validation set performance by gradient descent. The data efficiency of gradient-based optimization, as opposed to inefficient black-box search, allows DARTS to achieve competitive performance with the state of the art using orders of magnitude fewer computation resources. It also outperforms another recent efficient architecture search method, ENAS (Pham et al., 2018b). Notably, DARTS is simpler than many existing approaches as it does not involve controllers (Zoph & Le, 2017; Baker et al., 2017; Zoph et al., 2018; Pham et al., 2018b; Zhong et al., 2018), hypernetworks (Brock et al., 2018) or performance predictors (Liu et al., 2018a), yet it is generic enough handle both convolutional and recurrent architectures.

The idea of searching architectures within a continuous domain is not new (Saxena & Verbeek, 2016; Ahmed & Torresani, 2017; Veniat & Denoyer, 2017; Shin et al., 2018), but there are several major distinctions. While prior works seek to fine-tune a specific aspect of an architecture, such as filter shapes or branching patterns in a convolutional network, DARTS is able to learn high-performance architecture building blocks with complex graph topologies within a rich search space. Moreover, DARTS is not restricted to any specific architecture family and is applicable to both convolutional and recurrent networks.

In our experiments (Sect. 3) we show that DARTS is able to design a convolutional cell that achieves 2.76 Â± 0.09% test error on CIFAR-10 for image classification using 3.3M parameters, which is competitive with the state-of-the-art result by regularized evolution (Real et al., 2018) obtained using three orders of magnitude more computation resources. The same convolutional cell also achieves 26.7% top-1 error when transferred to ImageNet (mobile setting), which is comparable to the best RL method (Zoph et al., 2018). On the language modeling task, DARTS efficiently discovers a recurrent cell that achieves 55.7 test perplexity on Penn Treebank (PTB), outperforming both extensively tuned LSTM (Melis et al., 2018) and all the existing automatically searched cells based on NAS (Zoph & Le, 2017) and ENAS (Pham et al., 2018b).


ê¸°ì—¬ ìš”ì•½

Our contributions can be summarized as follows

We introduce a novel algorithm for differentiable network architecture search based on bilevel optimization, which is applicable to both convolutional and recurrent architectures

Through extensive experiments on image classification and language modeling tasks we show that gradient-based architecture search achieves highly competitive results on CIFAR-10 and outperforms the state of the art on PTB. This is a very interesting result, considering that so far the best architecture search methods used non-differentiable search techniques, e.g. based on RL (Zoph et al., 2018) or evolution (Real et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2018b).

We achieve remarkable efficiency improvement (reducing the cost of architecture discovery to a few GPU days), which we attribute to the use of gradient-based optimization as opposed to non-differentiable search techniques.

We show that the architectures learned by DARTS on CIFAR-10 and PTB are transferable to ImageNet and WikiText-2, respectively.


2. Differentiable Architecture Search

We describe our search space in general form in Sect. 2.1, where the computation procedure for an architecture (or a cell in it) is represented as a directed acyclic graph. We then introduce a simple continuous relaxation scheme for our search space which leads to a differentiable learning objective for the joint optimization of the architecture and its weights (Sect. 2.2). Finally, we propose an approximation technique to make the algorithm computationally feasible and efficient (Sect. 2.3).

2.1 Search Space

Following Zoph et al. (2018); Real et al. (2018); Liu et al. (2018a;b), we search for a computation cell as the building block of the final architecture. The learned cell could either be stacked to form a convolutional network or recursively connected to form a recurrent network.

A cell is a directed acyclic graph consisting of an ordered sequence of N nodes. Each node x(i) is a latent representation (e.g. a feature map in convolutional networks) and each directed edge (i, j) is associated with some operation o(i,j) that transforms x(i). We assume the cell to have two input nodes and a single output node. For convolutional cells, the input nodes are defined as the cell outputs in the previous two layers (Zoph et al., 2018). For recurrent cells, these are defined as the input at the current step and the state carried from the previous step. The output of the cell is obtained by applying a reduction operation (e.g. concatenation) to all the intermediate nodes. Each intermediate node is computed based on all of its predecessors:
Formula(1)
Figure1
A special zero operation is also included to indicate a lack of connection between two nodes. The task of learning the cell therefore reduces to learning the operations on its edges.


2.2. CONTINUOUS RELAXATION AND OPTIMIZATION

Let O be a set of candidate operations (e.g., convolution, max pooling, zero) where each operation represents some function o(Â·) to be applied to x(i) . To make the search space continuous, we relax the categorical choice of a particular operation to a softmax over all possible operations:
(2)

where the operation mixing weights for a pair of nodes (i, j) are parameterized by a vector Î± (i,j) of dimension |O|. The task of architecture search then reduces to learning a set of continuous variables Î± =  Î± (i,j) , as illustrated in Fig. 1. At the end of search, a discrete architecture can be obtained by replacing each mixed operation oÂ¯ (i,j) with the most likely operation, i.e., o (i,j) = argmaxoâˆˆO Î± (i,j) o . In the following, we refer to Î± as the (encoding of the) architecture.

After relaxation, our goal is to jointly learn the architecture Î± and the weights w within all the mixed operations (e.g. weights of the convolution filters). Analogous to architecture search using RL (Zoph & Le, 2017; Zoph et al., 2018; Pham et al., 2018b) or evolution (Liu et al., 2018b; Real et al., 2018) where the validation set performance is treated as the reward or fitness, DARTS aims to optimize the validation loss, but using gradient descent.

Denote by Ltrain and Lval the training and the validation loss, respectively. Both losses are determined not only by the architecture Î±, but also the weights w in the network. The goal for architecture search is to find Î±âˆ— that minimizes the validation loss Lval(wâˆ—, Î±âˆ—), where the weights wâˆ— associated with the architecture are obtained by minimizing the training loss wâˆ— = argminw Ltrain(w, Î±âˆ—).

This implies a bilevel optimization problem (Anandalingam & Friesz, 1992; Colson et al., 2007) with Î± as the upper-level variable and w as the lower-level variable:
(3)
(4) 
The nested formulation also arises in gradient-based hyperparameter optimization (Maclaurin et al., 2015; Pedregosa, 2016; Franceschi et al., 2018), which is related in a sense that the architecture Î± could be viewed as a special type of hyperparameter, although its dimension is substantially higher than scalar-valued hyperparameters such as the learning rate, and it is harder to optimize.
Algorithm1

2.3 APPROXIMATE ARCHITECTURE GRADIENT

Evaluating the architecture gradient exactly can be prohibitive due to the expensive inner optimization. We, therefore, propose a simple approximation scheme as follows:
(5)
(6)
where w denotes the current weights maintained by the algorithm, and Î¾ is the learning rate for a step of inner optimization. The idea is to approximate w âˆ— (Î±) by adapting w using only a single training step, without solving the inner optimization (equation 4) completely by training until convergence. Related techniques have been used in meta-learning for model transfer (Finn et al., 2017), gradientbased hyperparameter tuning (Luketina et al., 2016) and unrolled generative adversarial networks (Metz et al., 2017). Note equation 6 will reduce to âˆ‡Î±Lval(w, Î±) if w is already a local optimum for the inner optimization and thus âˆ‡wLtrain(w, Î±) = 0.

The iterative procedure is outlined in Alg. 1. While we are not currently aware of the convergence guarantees for our optimization algorithm, in practice it is able to reach a fixed point with a suitable choice of Î¾1. We also note that when momentum is enabled for weight optimisation, the one-step unrolled learning objective in equation 6 is modified accordingly and all of our analysis still applies. Applying chain rule to the approximate architecture gradient (equation 6) yields
(7)
where w0 = wâˆ’Î¾âˆ‡wLtrain(w, Î±) denotes the weights for a one-step forward model. The expression above contains an expensive matrix-vector product in its second term. Fortunately, the complexity can be substantially reduced using the finite difference approximation. Let  be a small scalar2 and w Â± = w Â± âˆ‡w0Lval(w0, Î±). Then:
(8) 
Evaluating the finite difference requires only two forward passes for the weights and two backward passes for Î±, and the complexity is reduced from O(|Î±||w|) to O(|Î±| + |w|) First-order Approximation When Î¾ = 0, the second-order derivative in equation 7 will disappear. In this case, the architecture gradient is given by âˆ‡Î±Lval(w, Î±), corresponding to the simple heuristic of optimizing the validation loss by assuming the current w is the same as wâˆ—(Î±). This leads to some speed-up but empirically worse performance, according to our experimental results in Table 1 and Table 2. In the following, we refer to the case of Î¾ = 0 as the first order approximation, and refer to the gradient formulation with Î¾ > 0 as the second-order approximation.


2.4 DERIVING DISCRETE ARCHITECTURES

To form each node in the discrete architecture, we retain the top-k strongest operations (from distinct nodes) among all non-zero candidate operations collected from all the previous nodes. The strength of an operation is defined as exp(Î±(i,j) o) P o0âˆˆO exp(Î±(i,j) o0). To make our derived architecture comparable with those in the existing works, we use k = 2 for convolutional cells (Zoph et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2018a; Real et al., 2018) and k = 1 for recurrent cells (Pham et al., 2018b).
Figure 2

The zero operations are excluded in the above for two reasons. First, we need exactly k non-zero incoming edges per node for fair comparison with the existing models. Second, the strength of the zero operations is underdetermined, as increasing the logits of zero operations only affects the scale of the resulting node representations, and does not affect the final classification outcome due to the presence of batch normalization (Ioffe & Szegedy, 2015).


3 EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS

Our experiments on CIFAR-10 and PTB consist of two stages, architecture search (Sect. 3.1) and architecture evaluation (Sect. 3.2). In the first stage, we search for the cell architectures using DARTS, and determine the best cells based on their validation performance. In the second stage, we use these cells to construct larger architectures, which we train from scratch and report their performance on the test set. We also investigate the transferability of the best cells learned on CIFAR-10 and PTB by evaluating them on ImageNet and WikiText-2 (WT2) respectively.

3.1 ARCHITECTURE SEARCH
3.1.1 SEARCHING FOR CONVOLUTIONAL CELLS ON CIFAR-10

We include the following operations in O: 3 Ã— 3 and 5 Ã— 5 separable convolutions, 3 Ã— 3 and 5 Ã— 5 dilated separable convolutions, 3 Ã— 3 max pooling, 3 Ã— 3 average pooling, identity, and zero. All operations are of stride one (if applicable) and the convolved feature maps are padded to preserve their spatial resolution. We use the ReLU-Conv-BN order for convolutional operations, and each separable convolution is always applied twice (Zoph et al., 2018; Real et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2018a).

Our convolutional cell consists of N = 7 nodes, among which the output node is defined as the depthwise concatenation of all the intermediate nodes (input nodes excluded). The rest of the setup follows Zoph et al. (2018); Liu et al. (2018a); Real et al. (2018), where a network is then formed by stacking multiple cells together. The first and second nodes of cell k are set equal to the outputs of cell kâˆ’2 and cell kâˆ’1, respectively, and 1Ã—1 convolutions are inserted as necessary. Cells located at the 1/3 and 2/3 of the total depth of the network are reduction cells, in which all the operations adjacent to the input nodes are of stride two. The architecture encoding therefore is (Î±normal, Î±reduce), where Î±normal is shared by all the normal cells and Î±reduce is shared by all the reduction cells. Detailed experimental setup for this section can be found in Sect. A.1.1.

3.1.2 SEARCHING FOR RECURRENT CELLS ON PENN TREEBANK

Our set of available operations includes linear transformations followed by one of tanh, relu, sigmoid activations, as well as the identity mapping and the zero operation. The choice of these candidate operations follows Zoph & Le (2017); Pham et al. (2018b).

Our recurrent cell consists of N = 12 nodes. The very first intermediate node is obtained by linearly transforming the two input nodes, adding up the results and then passing through a tanh activation function, as done in the ENAS cell (Pham et al., 2018b). The rest of the cell is learned. Other settings are similar to ENAS, where each operation is enhanced with a highway bypass (Zilly et al., 2016) and the cell output is defined as the average of all the intermediate nodes. As in ENAS, we enable batch normalization in each node to prevent gradient explosion during architecture search, and disable it during architecture evaluation. Our recurrent network consists of only a single cell, i.e. we do not assume any repetitive patterns within the recurrent architecture. Figure3
Detailed experimental setup for this section can be found in Sect. A.1.2.
Figure 4, 5, 6

3.2 ARCHITECTURE EVALUATION

To determine the architecture for final evaluation, we run DARTS four times with different random seeds and pick the best cell based on its validation performance obtained by training from scratch for a short period (100 epochs on CIFAR-10 and 300 epochs on PTB). This is particularly important for recurrent cells, as the optimization outcomes can be initialization-sensitive (Fig. 3).

To evaluate the selected architecture, we randomly initialize its weights (weights learned during the search process are discarded), train it from scratch, and report its performance on the test set. We note the test set is never used for architecture search or architecture selection.

Detailed experimental setup for architecture evaluation on CIFAR-10 and PTB can be found in Sect. A.2.1 and Sect. A.2.2, respectively. Besides CIFAR-10 and PTB, we further investigated the transferability of our best convolutional cell (searched on CIFAR-10) and recurrent cell (searched on PTB) by evaluating them on ImageNet (mobile setting) and WikiText-2, respectively. More details of the transfer learning experiments can be found in Sect. A.2.3 and Sect. A.2.4.
Table 1, 2, 3


3.3 RESULTS ANALYSIS

The CIFAR-10 results for convolutional architectures are presented in Table 1. Notably, DARTS achieved comparable results with the state of the art (Zoph et al., 2018; Real et al., 2018) while using three orders of magnitude less computation resources (i.e. 1.5 or 4 GPU days vs 2000 GPU days for NASNet and 3150 GPU days for AmoebaNet). Moreover, with slightly longer search time, DARTS outperformed ENAS (Pham et al., 2018b) by discovering cells with comparable error rates but less parameters. The longer search time is due to the fact that we have repeated the search process four times for cell selection. This practice is less important for convolutional cells however, because the performance of discovered architectures does not strongly depend on initialization (Fig. 3).

Alternative Optimization Strategies To better understand the necessity of bilevel optimization, we investigated a simplistic search strategy, where Î± and w are jointly optimized over the union of the training and validation sets using coordinate descent. The resulting best convolutional cell (out of 4 runs) yielded 4.16 Â± 0.16% test error using 3.1M parameters, which is worse than random search. In the second experiment, we optimized Î± simultaneously with w (without alteration) using SGD, again over all the data available (training + validation). The resulting best cell yielded 3.56 Â± 0.10% test error using 3.0M parameters. We hypothesize that these heuristics would cause Î± (analogous to hyperparameters) to overfit the training data, leading to poor generalization. Note that Î± is not directly optimized on the training set in DARTS.

Table 2 presents the results for recurrent architectures on PTB, where a cell discovered by DARTS achieved the test perplexity of 55.7. This is on par with the state-of the-art model enhanced by a mixture of softmaxes (Yang et al., 2018), and better than all the rest of the architectures that are either manually or automatically discovered. Note that our automatically searched cell outperforms the extensively tuned LSTM (Melis et al., 2018), demonstrating the importance of architecture search in addition to hyperparameter search. In terms of efficiency, the overall â€‹cost (4 runs in total) is within 1 GPU day, which is comparable to ENAS and significantly faster than NAS (Zoph & Le, 2017).

It is also interesting to note that random search is competitive for both convolutional and recurrent models, which reflects the importance of the search space design. Nevertheless, with comparable or less search cost, DARTS is able to significantly improve upon random search in both cases (2.76 Â± 0.09 vs 3.29 Â± 0.15 on CIFAR-10; 55.7 vs 59.4 on PTB).

Results in Table 3 show that the cell learned on CIFAR-10 is indeed transferable to ImageNet. It is worth noticing that DARTS achieves competitive performance with the state-of-the-art RL method (Zoph et al., 2018) while using three orders of magnitude less computation resources.

Table 4 shows that the cell identified by DARTS transfers to WT2 better than ENAS, although the overall results are less strong than those presented in Table 2 for PTB. The weaker transferability between PTB and WT2 (as compared to that between CIFAR-10 and ImageNet) could be explained by the relatively small size of the source dataset (PTB) for architecture search. The issue of transferability could potentially be circumvented by directly optimizing the architecture on the task of interest.
Table 4


4  CONCLUSION

We presented DARTS, a simple yet efficient architecture search algorithm for both convolutional and recurrent networks. By searching in a continuous space, DARTS is able to match or outperform the state-of-the-art non-differentiable architecture search methods on image classification and language modeling tasks with remarkable efficiency improvement by several orders of magnitude.

There are many interesting directions to improve DARTS further. For example, the current method may suffer from discrepancies between the continuous architecture encoding and the derived discrete architecture. This could be alleviated, e.g., by annealing the softmax temperature (with a suitable schedule) to enforce one-hot selection. It would also be interesting to investigate performance-aware architecture derivation schemes based on the shared parameters learned during the search process.
